# Improving Detection of Virus Integration in Tumor Genomes using Deep Learning  



Pathogenic viruses pose significant threats to public health throughout the world. Some of them causally link to human oncogenesis. For example, human papillomavirus (HPV) causes 91 percent of cases of cervical cancer, the fourth most common cancer in women globally. In cervical cancer and some other viral mediated cancers, viruses can integrate their genetic material into host cell genome.  The process of viral integration causes damages to the host cell DNA and increases the risk of cancer-promoting changes occurring in the host genome. Therefore, to understand the molecular mechanisms of viral mediated cancers, a necessary step is to detect viruses and their insertion sites in cancer genomes. With rapid advances in next generation sequencing (NGS) technologies over the past two decades and their increasingly widespread applications in hospitals, many NGS-based tools were developed to detect viruses and their insertion sites. NGS has the potential to unbiasedly and comprehensively identify pathogens in clinical samples. But due to the challenge of accurate detection, the sensitivity of today’s tools is still not satisfactory, not matching that of the established quantitative technologies. 

To address the new challenges posed by the exponentially increasing volume of genomics data as well as by accurate analysis of the data, we need to enhance VirusFinder, to keep this widely used software up-to-date and more importantly to further improve its accuracy. After enhancement, we anticipate that this unique software will better meet the need for accurate virus integration detection. By providing a state-of-the-art tool to the scientific community, this project has the potential to empower the ability of cancer researchers to investigate the etiologic association of viruses with cancer, the understanding of which is still in preliminary stages. 

The major goal of this repository is to keep the relevant datasets, codes, and papers for this project. 
 
